---
author: mihaiberq

levels:

  - basic

  - medium

type: normal

category: must-know

standards:
  blockchain.analyze-blockchain-components.1: 20
  blockchain.analyze-blockchain-components.4: 20
  blockchain.compare-altcoins.4: 10
  blockchain.compare-altcoins.5: 10

aspects:

  - introduction

links:

  - >-
    [Generating a Bitcoin address on your own](http://procbits.com/2013/08/27/generating-a-bitcoin-address-with-javascript)

---
# Wallets

---
## Content

Each Bitcoin address has two keys: a public and a private one. You only share the public one and keep the private one secret.
 	            
A (digital) **wallet** is a piece of software that can listen to and interact with the network. In case it is also connected to the network, it can handle transactions and display the sum of UTXOs that had as recipient *an address generated by the wallet*.
             	
Probably one of the biggest misconception people have about wallets is that your wallet is your balance on the blockchain. A cryptowallet is rather a collection of identities on the blockchain, each with its own UTXOs. Because of that, in general, but also in particular for Bitcoin, it is also recommended to never use an address more than once (we'll cover the reasons why soon).
             	
Usually, the main blockchain client has an integrated wallet as well (the possibility of generating private keys and computing public ones). Another feature that you must look for when choosing a wallet is its ability to encrypt the private keys.
             	
The encryption is necessary because the private key would otherwise be saved in plain text. This is something that you may not necessarily want, especially if you have invested a large sum of money into the coin.
             	
There are also paper wallets. Paper wallets usually consist of a printed page that contains 2 QR codes, one that carries the public key and one the private key.
                 
Physical wallets are pieces of hardware that can run wallet applications but are not connected to the internet. The actual device usually requires purchasing, but once bought can generate new addresses, a feature the paper wallet doesn't have.

---
## Practice

What does a cryptocurrency wallet contain?
             	
???
             	
* A list of public and private key pairs
* A list of account ID and balance pairs
* A QR code
* A list of coin IDs

---
## Revision

What do you need to obtain an address' balance for a particular cryptocoin?
             	
???
             	
* The public key and a blockchain connection.
* The private key and a blockchain connection.
* The public key.
* The public/private key pair.
