---
author: mihaiberq
type: normal
category: must-know
links:
  - >-
    [A Hitchiker's Guide to Consensus
    Algorithms](https://hackernoon.com/a-hitchhikers-guide-to-consensus-algorithms-d81aae3eb0e3){article}
practiceQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
revisionQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
---

# Consensus Algorithms


---

## Content

**Consensus algorithms** are the blockchain bodyguards. They prevent *double spending*. Some blockchains depend on participants investing in hardware (miners), while others on people investing in their token (stakers). Some depend on a third party organization (authority), while others on randomly selected groups of participants. So far, no algorithm that would work great in all cases has been found; they all have their pros and cons.

The blockchain needs them because, if no majority agrees on the state, there is no single source of truth,and hence, no blockchain. Furthermore, not all nodes in the networks are honest, such that consensus algorithms must account for and hold for adversarial condition. A list of proposed solutions to secure the blockchain is presented below:

- Proof of work
- Proof of stake
- Delegated proof of stake
- Other solutions to the Byzantine Generals Problem
             	

Consensus has to be reached about blocks to be added to the blockchain. Usually, the system behind the blockchain has a method of incentivizing users to reach consensus. In a proof of work environment, the incentive is the block reward - a number of tokens generated by the blockchain out of "thin air" given to those that secured the blockchain.

In proof of stake, people vouch for blocks they think should be added to the blockchain by staking coins. Most of the times, the reward is the sum of transaction fees for that block or a considerably smaller block reward - similar to an interest rate rather than an one-time lottery ticket. Qtum and Peercoin both use proof of stake.

To have a chance of winning the block reward in proof of work, you have to be mining. A full node in the Bitcoin network does not receive anything. Qtum, on the other hand, allows everyone that holds coins in a wallet to stake and have a chance at winning the block reward.


---

## Practice

In case the node picked to append the next block is based on the computing power it has, what is the process called?

???

- Proof of work
- Proof of stake
- Proof of concept
- Proof of process


---

## Revision

In the context of Bitcoin, what is the reward for running a full node?

???

- There is no reward.
- The node reward is equal to the block reward.
- Exactly 10% of the block reward.
- A small fee off of ever confirmed transaction.


---

## Quiz

### Pick the odd one out.


Which of the following is not a way to validate blocks?

- Proof of burn
- Proof of work
- Proof of stake
- Proof of useful work
