---
author: emmab
tags:
  - introduction
type: normal
category: must-know
links:
  - '[Big Data](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data){website}'
practiceQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
revisionQuestion:
  formats:
    - fill-in-the-gap
  context: standalone
---

# Big Data


---

## Content

As the name suggests, Big Data refers to **extremely large volumes** of data that are hard to analyze using traditional techniques.

It’s more helpful to read it as, “so much data that you need to take careful steps to avoid week-long script runtimes.”

Just think about Amazon’s recommendation algorithm...

The company takes all your buying history together with what it knows about you, your buying patterns, and the buying patterns of people like you to come up with some pretty good suggestions. 

It’s a marketing machine, and the company's big data analytics capabilities have made it extremely successful.

Companies or governments use software frameworks like Hadoop[1] to store and process huge amounts of any kind of data quickly.

Check out the **Learn More** link to discover some big data use cases in healthcare, education and the Internet of Things.


---

## Practice

YouTube and Netflix recommendation algorithms are powered by Big Data.

???

- True
- False


---

## Revision

Big Data is generated by the Internet of Things and smart devices that gather data on customer usage patterns and product performance.

???

- True
- False


---

## Footnotes

[1:Hadoop]
Hadoop is an open source Java-based framework used for storing and processing big data. It provides massive storage for any kind of data, enormous processing power and the ability to handle virtually limitless concurrent tasks or jobs.
