---
author: emmab

tags:
  - introduction

type: normal

category: must-know

links:
  - '[Tableau](https://www.tableau.com/en-gb){website}'

---
# Make your results stand out

---
## Content

Adding filters and colors helps you better visualize your data and can identify insights or problems right away.

To add color, simply drag fields to 'color' on the Marks card. 

Adding color visually enhances your view, but it can also make interesting data pop. 

Tableau uses a default color palette to assign colors to the products in your view, but you are not limited to that color palette. You have choices!

> 💡 Diverging color palettes are generally assigned to continuous fields.

If you add colors and filters but want to keep exploring then you can duplicate worksheets and save any changes to a new report.

If you're looking at geographical data, you have the option to build a **Map View**. Pretty cool stuff.

Latitude and Longitude fields are added to the Columns and Rows shelves. You can think of these as X and Y fields. 

They're essential any time you want to create a map view.

Sometimes the Latitude and Longitude fields are generated by Tableau. Other times, you might have to manually include them in your data. Check [this link](https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/maps_data.htm) to see which data Tableau supports for building map views.

You can also use a **Top N Filter** in Tableau Desktop to set a limit to the number of marks displayed in your view.

If you're already a Tableau user, let us know your favorite visualization techniques in the comments below! 👇
 
